<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>IETF 80 - RFC5987bis</title>
    <style type="text/css">
body {
  color: black;
  font-family: verdana, helvetica, arial, sans-serif;
  font-size: 18pt;
}
h1 {
  font-size: 36pt;
}
li {
  margin-top: 0.5em;
}
q {
  font-style: italic;  
}
del {
  color: red;
  text-decoration: line-through;
}
ins {
  color: green;
  text-decoration: underline;
}
.break {
  page-break-before: always;
}
@page {
  size: a4 landscape;
}
@page {
  @bottom-left {
       content: "Julian Reschke, greenbytes";
  }
  @bottom-right {
       content: counter(page);
  }
  @top-center {
       content: "IETF 80 - RFC5987bis";
  }
}
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>IETF 80 - RFC5987bis</h1>
    <p>
      <a href="mailto:julian.reschke@greenbytes.de">Julian Reschke</a>, greenbytes
    </p>
  
    <h2 class="break">History</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>
        RFC 2231 defined I18N for header field parameters in MIME messages,
        was partly supported in HTTP consumers for filename parameters in
        Content-Disposition header fields. 
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="http://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/rfc5987.html">RFC 5987</a>, published in August 2010, profiles RFC 2231 for use in HTTP
        messages.
      </li>
      <li>
        Used in <a href="http://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/rfc5989.html">RFC 5988</a> (Web Linking) and
        <a href="http://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/draft-ietf-httpbis-content-disp-latest.html">draft-ietf-httpbis-content-disp</a>
        ("Use of the Content-Disposition Header Field in the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)",
        <del>in the hands of the IESG</del><ins>approved Monday, 2011-03-28</ins>).
      </li>
      <li>
        Currently a Proposed Standard.
      </li>
      <li>
        Since publication of RFC 5987, Internet Explorer and Chrome added
        support. Firefox, Konqueror, and Opera had it long before. Safari
        does not implement it.
      </li>
    </ul>

    <h2 class="break">Proposed Next Steps</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Create implementation report, based on a subset of the Content-Disposition
        tests at
        <a href="http://greenbytes.de/tech/tc2231/">http://greenbytes.de/tech/tc2231/</a>.
      </li>
      <li>
        Potentially further profile it (Microsoft's IE team didn't want to support ISO-8859-1,
        only UTF-8).
      </li>
      <li>
        Submit revision for publication as Draft Standard.
      </li>
      <li>
        Reference from HTTPbis' "Considerations for new header fields"?
      </li>
      <li>
        WG work item? (RFC 5987 was not).
      </li>
    </ul>

  </body>
</html>
