<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>IETF 90 - Client-Initiated Content-Encoding</title>
    <style type="text/css">
body {
  color: black;
  font-family: cambria, helvetica, arial, sans-serif;
  font-size: 18pt;
}
h1 {
  font-size: 36pt;
}
li {
  margin-top: 0.5em;
}
q {
  font-style: italic;  
}
.break {
  page-break-before: always;
}
@page {
  size: a4 landscape;
}
@page {
  @bottom-left {
       content: "Julian Reschke, greenbytes";
  }
  @bottom-right {
       content: counter(page);
  }
  @top-center {
       content: "IETF 90 - Client-Initiated Content-Encoding";
  }
}
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>IETF 90 - Client-Initiated Content-Encoding</h1>
    <p>
      <a href="mailto:julian.reschke@greenbytes.de">Julian Reschke</a>, greenbytes
    </p>

    <h2 class="break">What problem does it solve?</h2>
    <p>
      HTTP/1.1 clients already can use content codings such as "gzip" in requests, but
      if a server doesn't play along, it's hard to understand what went wrong.
    </p>
    <p>
      Status code 415 (Unsupported Media Type) can already be used, but
      the recipient wouldn't know whether the problem was caused by the
      media type or the content coding, and also would need information
      about what content codings <em>are</em> supported.
    </p>

    <h2>Proposed Solution</h2>
    <p>
      Extend "Accept-Encoding" header field to be usable in responses as well.
      When sent in a 415 response, it would indicate which content codings
      are supported.
    </p>
    <p>
      See <a href="http://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/draft-reschke-http-cice-01.html">draft-reschke-http-cice-01</a>.
    </p>
    <p>
      This is a really a tiny, backwards compatible extension to RFC 7231;
      it might have been part of it if we had thought of it in time.
    </p>

    <h2 class="break">To Be Discussed</h2>
    <p>
      Also define use in OPTIONS response? Trouble is it might vary
      be request method.
    </p>
    <p>
      Content codings can be seen as ugly workaround for transfer codings
      not implemented in practice. Should we try harder to fix <em>that</em>
      problem?
    </p>
    <p>
      Working Group draft?
    </p>
    <p>
      Once it's a Proposed Standard, it'll be a candidate for inclusion into RFC7231bis.
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
