<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>IETF 90 - Progressing Specs</title>
    <style type="text/css">
body {
  color: black;
  font-family: cambria, helvetica, arial, sans-serif;
  font-size: 18pt;
}
tt {
  font-family: consolas;
}
h1 {
  font-size: 36pt;
}
li {
  margin-top: 0.5em;
}
q {
  font-style: italic;  
}
.break {
  page-break-before: always;
}
@page {
  size: a4 landscape;
}
@page {
  @bottom-left {
       content: "Julian Reschke, greenbytes";
  }
  @bottom-right {
       content: counter(page);
  }
  @top-center {
       content: "IETF 90 - Progressing Specs";
  }
}
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>IETF 90 - Progressing Specs</h1>
    <p>
      <a href="mailto:julian.reschke@greenbytes.de">Julian Reschke</a>, greenbytes
    </p>

    <h2 class="break">RFC 7230..5: HTTP/1.1 base specs</h2>
    <p>
      Status:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>Published in June 2014 as <em>Proposed Standard</em> - due to the large amount of editorial changes from RFC 2616.</li>
      <li>Of the six specs, HTTP/2 only replaces parts of one of these (wire format).</li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Goals:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>Improve separation of wire format and all the other parts. Where needed, better accomodate HTTP/2.</li>
      <li>Cherry-pick stuff from other specs that really should have been part of the base spec
      (requires maturity level of "Proposed Standard"). <em>(slippery slope - we have IANA registries for a reason...)</em></li>
    </ul>
    <h2 class="break">RFC 7230..5: HTTP/1.1 base specs (continued)</h2>
    <p>
      Plan:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>Proposed Standard &#x2192; Internet Standard.</li>
      <li>Establish a venue where we can do more than just collecting errata. &#x2192; issue tracker, WG discussions leading
      to proposed and agreed upon resolutions.</li>
      <li>Start work on revised drafts after publication of HTTP/2.</li>
    </ul>


    <h2 class="break">RFC 7238: The Hypertext Transfer Protocol Status Code 308 (Permanent Redirect)</h2>
    <p>
      Status:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Approved early 2012, but published last month due to httpbis dependencies.
      </li>
      <li>
        Implemented in many tools, plus Firefox, Safari, Chrome 36.
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Plan:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Experimental &#x2192; Proposed Standard.
      </li>
      <li>
        No content changes needed; publish new RFC or reclassify?
      </li>
      <li>
        Tests: <a href="http://greenbytes.de/tech/tc/httpredirects/#l-308">http://greenbytes.de/tech/tc/httpredirects/#l-308</a>
      </li>
    </ul>

    <h2 class="break">RFC 5987: Character Set and Language Encoding for Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Header Field Parameters</h2>
    <p>
      aka <tt>*param=UTF-8''....</tt>
    </p>
    <p>
      Status:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Supported for "Content-Disposition" header field in all browsers (where IE only supports UTF-8 where the spec also requires ISO-8859-1).
      </li>
      <li>
        Supported for "Link" in Firefox.
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Plan:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Proposed Standard &#x2192; Internet Standard.
      </li>
      <li>
        Drop ISO-8859-1 requirement.
      </li>
      <li>
        Rewrite to be consistent with RFC 723*.
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="http://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/draft-reschke-rfc5987bis-07.html">draft-reschke-rfc5987bis-07</a>,
        Tests: <a href="http://greenbytes.de/tech/tc2231/">http://greenbytes.de/tech/tc2231/</a>
      </li>
      <li>
        Was a private submission. Revise as Working Group work item?
      </li>
    </ul>
  
    <h2 class="break">RFC 6266: Use of the Content-Disposition Header Field in the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)</h2>
    <p>
      Status:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Supported in all browsers.
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Plan:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Proposed Standard &#x2192; Internet Standard.
      </li>
      <li>
        Only tiny edits required.
      </li>
      <li>
        ...after RFC 5987bis is done.
      </li>
      <li>
        Was a Working Group work item. Revise as Working Group work item?
      </li>
    </ul>

  </body>
</html>
